## Outline

- Shortcut to show and hide the right sidebar: `t r`
- Shortcut to open a page in the sidebar: `Shift + Click` on a page reference or page name (when you're on the page)
- To open a block or branch in the sidebar: `Shift + Click` on the bullet
  - When you click on a bullet, all of its child block will also appear in the sidebar
- Shortcut to open today's journals page in the right sidebar: `Alt + Shift + j` (on macOS this is `Cmd + Shift+ j`)

Logseq's interface has four main components: the main window, the two sidebars, and the search bar.

In this article, we have a brief look at each component so you quickly become familair with the interface.

## The left sidebar
The left-hand sidebar is where you probably started when first using Logseq. It's where you manage your graph from (your collection of notes):

**TK SCREENSHOT/MOCKUP OF LEFT SIDEBAR**

In the left sidebar, you first see the name of your current graph. Clicking it, you get the options to add a new graph, see all your graphs, refresh Logseq, and re-index.

Refresh is useful after you install or update plugins and themes. By re-indexing your graph, Logseq scans all the pages in your graph's directory and rebuilds the database of links. You can read more about re-indexing in our technical documentation. **TK ADD LINK**

Finally, the left sidebar houses the buttons to the flashcards option, graph view, and all pages overview. Once you start using Logseq, you also see the pages that you've favorited and recently appear in the sidebar.

To show and hide the left sidebar, you can use the keyboard shortcut `t l` (press `t` and then `l` on your keyboard). ALternatively, use your mouse by clicking on the hamburger menu (icon with the three lines) on the left.

## The main window

The main window is where you'll spend most of your time. It's where pages open when you click a link, and it's where your zoom into blocks and branches by clicking on a bullet.

In the main window you can only have one location open at the time. This is your distraction-free writing environment. If you want to see notes from multiple locations, you can use the right-hand sidebar.

## The right sidebar




## The search bar
To search your collection of notes or create new pages, you can use the search bar at the top of the screen. You can also pull up search/page creation by using the keyboard shortcut `Ctrl-k` (`Cmd-k` on macOS).

The search functionality looks through all of your pages and individual blocks. It highlights any page names and blocks containing your search term. 