Welcome to your new dedicated environment for learning and thinking!

To help you get started figuring out the workflows that work for you, we'll take you through Logseq's core features.

See Logseq's features as tools in your toolbox; individually a tool will only do a little, but once you learn to use them in combination you can build powerful knowledge workflows.

Before we dive into the overview of Logseq's functionality, let's first have a look at the interface and its main components. In the other articles of this Getting Started section we dig a bit deeper into what makes Logseq special.

## The Journals page
Every time you open Logseq, you start on the Journals page.

The Journals page is the ideal place to enter information in your graph. Every day at midnight a new Journals page is created with that day's date, making it easy to see when you've added what information.

The Journals page also functions as an area to resurface notes. In the linked references of each day's Journals page you'll see the mentions of that day's date. This is handy for when you want to send your future self reminders or TODOs.

When it's your first time using an outliner tool like Logseq, we recommend you write everything on the Journals page of that day. Avoid creating pages for everything and scattering your information over unconnected islands. Until you know how to link pages and blocks—and even after—it's best to use your Journals pages for everything.

Once you feel more comfortable with Logseq, [continue with the lesson on how to create pages.]([[How to create pages in Logseq]])

If you first want to know more about linking in Logseq, see the article [Why linking matters.]()


## The left sidebar

## The main window

## The right sidebar


## Further reading