Welcome to your new dedicated environment for learning and thinking!

To help you get started figuring out the workflows that work for you, we'll take you through Logseq's core features.

See Logseq's features as tools in your toolbox; individually a tool will only do a little, but once you learn to use them in combination you can build powerful knowledge workflows.

Before we dive into the overview of Logseq's functionality, let's first have a look at the interface and its main components. In the other articles of this `Getting Started` section we dig a bit deeper into what makes Logseq special.

## What makes Logseq different?
Logseq isn't just a note-taking tool, it's a personal knowledge management tool. With Logseq, you easily capture information, structure and organize it, and turn your knowledge work into shareable insights.

Before you start using Logseq, let's have a look at two aspects that make it different from most other note-taking apps:

### Logseq is an outliner

Most note-taking apps let you create pages within folders. That's how your computer works, so why not also organize your notes this way?

We believe that the easiest way to take notes is by writing them in an outline. That's why Logseq is unapologetically an *outliner* and you see bullets everywhere. In Logseq, every piece of information that has a bullet in front of it is called a **block**, which is the core unit of information.

We'll talk a lot more about blocks and outlines in this manual.

### Logseq is a _networked_ outliner
How often are you looking for notes, only to find a copy of an old version that doesn't contain what you had in mind.

Most notes tools try to emulate paper and folders, meaning that each note is located in precisely one folder. This makes remixing your notes difficult, and often leads to having several copies of slightly different notes. Logseq aims to solve this so you can focus on doing your best thinking.

With Logseq, you can connect any block, from anywhere in your notes collection. Creating copies of blocks is as easy as dragging your mouse. Remix your ideas in new outlines in minutes.

Logseq is different compared to traditional note-taking apps in that everthing is about the block. Over as you read this guide and use Logseq, you'll start to how powerful this is.

## How to read shortcuts in this manual
You can trigger many of Logseq's actions using your keyboard. If you're not comfortable using keyboard combinations (shortcuts), read this short section to understand how to use them.

Whenever you see a keyboard combination that contains a plus (`+`) symbol (e.g. `Ctrl + k`), it means you need to press those keys at the same time to trigger the action.

When you see a shortcut containing a space (e.g. `t l`) that means you need to press those keys one after the other to trigger the action.

## Articles in this section

- [Overview of Logseq's interface](1.2.overview-of-logseqs-interface)