Do you feel overwhelmed by information? Are you constantly looking for your notes, not knowing where you saved them?

Logseq is the answer to your knowledge work challenges.

With Logseq, you can dump all your notes in one place and easily find them back. Whether you need to capture a task, meeting notes, or even run entire projects, Logseq has your back. And best of all: no eyes are spying on your notes, as Logseq stores everything on your device and encrypts your notes if you use [Logseq Sync](logseq://handbook/2.sync/_1.how_to_enable_sync).

But what makes Logseq truly different from other note-taking tools is that in this app you write everything in lists.

Logseq is a so-called _outliner_, which means that you structure your notes while you type, in simple bulleted lists. And with this ease of structuring information, you no longer need to think about how to name a note or where to store it.

So how does a simple outlining app enable you to take, structure, and find your notes with ease? That’s the topic of this onboarding guide.

In the next couple of articles, you’ll learn everything you need to know about Logseq to start getting value out of it. No matter if you’re a student or a business executive, Logseq enables you to capture and make sense of the information in your (professional) life.

While we’ll present the core features and a simple workflow, Logseq does not impose a way of working. Within the limitations of the outline, you can design any workflow you’d like. And with Logseq’s rich plugin ecosystem—and the fact that the app is open source—the possibilities are endless.

For now, let’s focus on the three most important concepts in Logseq:

* Blocks and branches
* Journals and pages
* Page and block references

We’ll start with a brief overview of these core features before zooming in on each one.