Every time you open Logseq, you start on the Journals page. That's why we called it *Logseq*: you create a *sequence* of *logs* on the journals page.

Every day at midnight a new Journals page is created with that day's date, giving you a clean slate.

## How to use the Journals
The Journals page is the ideal place to enter information in your graph as it takes away the question: *"where do I put this note?"*

The Journals page also functions as an area to resurface notes. In the Linked References **TK ADD LINK** of each day's Journals page you'll see the mentions of that day's date. This is handy for when you want to send your future self reminders or TODOs.

When it's your first time using an outliner tool like Logseq, we recommend you write everything on the Journals page of the current day. Avoid creating pages for everything and scattering your information over unconnected "islands". Until you know how to link pages and blocks — and even after — it's best to use your Journals pages for everything.

To organize information, simply group related blocks in branches (using the `Tab` key to indent blocks).

**TK ADD SCREENSHOT OF PROPERLY ORGANIZED BRANCHES ON JOURNALS PAGE**

## How to open the Journals
When you open Logseq, you start on the Journals page (the collection of individual Journals).

To quickly open the Journals page in the main window, use the keyboard shortcut `g j` (tip to remember: **g**o **j**ournal). Alternatively, you can click the `Journals` button in the left sidebar or the house icon in the top bar.

**TK ADD GIF SHOWING RETURNING TO JOURNALS PAGE USING SHORTCUT AND MOUSE**

When you land on the Journals page, all Journals will show in reverse chronological order (newest first). By scrolling down, you'll go back in time (so to say, of course).

If you want to open today's Journal in the right sidebar, you can use the keyboard shortcut `Alt + Shift + j` (on macOS the shortcut is `Cmd + Shift + j`).

**TK ADD GIF SHOWING OPENING JOURNAL PAGE IN SIDEBAR**