- Why use Logseq?
	- Offload your thoughts in seconds, and find them back years later.
	- No eyes are spying on your notes, as Logseq stores everything on your device and encrypts your notes before syncing them.
	- Logseq is an outliner (= you write everything in lists)
		- You can structure your notes as you type them
	- You no longer need to think about where to store notes
		- Outlining and linking is enough
- The only features you need to get started with Logseq
	- Blocks are like paragraphs
	- Branches are like subsections
	- Pages are collections of blocks
	- References let you link to blocks and pages
- Write in blocks and branches
	- Branches have at least one parent-child relationship (the top block is the *parent*, the indented block the *child*)
	- Blocks that are on the same indentation level as other blocks in a branch are called *sibling blocks*
	- Blocks make it easy to reorganize your notes as you can drag-and-drop them, or move them around using your keyboard.
	- Branches make it easy to see the relationship between ideas/information
	- Collapsable branches make it easy to skim your notes
	- Zooming into branches gives you a distraction-free writing environment
	- To create a new block, press `Enter` when your cursor is in a new block, or click the `+` icon at the bottom of a page (you need to over the area that's below the last bullet on the page)
	- To indent a block, hit the `Tab` key (if your cursor is in the block) or drag the block underneath another block.
	- To unindent a block (and its child blocks), use the `Shift + Tab` keys, or drag the block with your mouse
	- To move a block up or down the page, use `Ctrl + Shift + Up` or `Ctrl + Shift + Down` (`Cmd + Shift + Up`/`Down` on Mac). Alternatively, click the bullet of a block and drag it elsewhere.
	- To collapse or expand a branch, use the little arrow next to the bullet of a parent block, or put the cursor in the block and press `Ctrl + Up` (`Cmd + Up`) to collapse the branch and `Ctrl + Down` (`Cmd + Down` on Mac) to expand the branch.
	- To zoom into a block, click on its bullet or put the cursor in the block and press `Ctrl + .` (`Cmd + .` on Mac).
		- To zoom out of a block, use the breadcrumb at the top or put the cursor in the block and press `Ctrl + ,` (`Cmd + ,` on Mac)
- Organize with journals and pages
	- There are two types of pages in Logseq:
		- Journals pages (created automatically)
		- Titled pages (created by you, the user)
	- A journal page is created for every day that you open Logseq
		- Don't open Logseq for a day, and no journal page gets created for that day
	- Journals remove the ever-present question: *"where do I store this note?*
	- Titled pages are useful to group related notes
	- There are three ways to create titled pages:
		- Using the search bar
		- Using a hashtag
		- Using double brackets
	- Every block you put on a journal page, are tagged with that date
		- Likewise, every block you put on a tiled page, is tagged with that date
		- That means you can use a date in a query and find all blocks from a specific date, but queries are an advanced topic.
	- It doesn't matter where you place your notes, as long as you link and indent (see next section)
- Link your notes with page and block references
	- There are two types of links in Logseq: *page* references and *block* references
	- A page reference is created using `#hashtags` (most people call them *tags*) and `[[bracket links]]` (also just called *links*).
		- Referencing a page also creates an entry in the *Linked References* section of that page. This section shows all the places from which a reference to that page was created.
			- Because journal pages are pages, they also have a Linked References section that you can leverage (for example to "send" blocks to a future date).
	- Block references let you pinpoint an exact location of a page.
		- There are three ways to reference a block:
			- Using the keyboard shortcut (`Ctrl + C` on Linux and Windows, or `Cmd + C` on Mac).
			- Using the block's context menu (`Right-Click` on a block’s bullet and select the option `Copy block ref`).
			- Using block search (type `(())` and then between the parentheses a word or phrase that’s in the block you wish to reference).
		- The *block reference counter* (on the right hand side of a block) is effectively the Linked References section of that block.
		- Block references only show the block itself, not its child blocks.
	- Embeds lets you show entire pages and branches inside of other blocks. Further more, through embeds you can directly edit blocks.
		- To embed a page, type `/embed` in a block, select the `Page embed` option, and hit `Enter` on your keyboard. Next, type the name of the page you wish to embed.
		- There are two ways to embed a branch:
			- Type `/embed` in a block, select the `Block embed` option, and hit `Enter` on your keyboard. Next, type the name of the page you wish to embed. Once you've found the block you wish to embed, either `Right-Click` it with your mouse or press `Enter` on your keyboard.
			- `Right-Click` the bullet of the block you wish to embed, and select the `Copy block embed` option. This copies the block’s ID to your clipboard, so you can paste it anywhere you want.